First of all I should express my special appreciation for this opportunity
And the time of the committee to accept the remote defence


My thesis totally is done in the University of Waterloo under the supervision
of Prof. Khandani in Communication System and Transmission LAB for a 1 year 
duration starts in March 2014
However, I tried to keep my contacts with my supervisors in Politecnico and
there are write time-to-time to ask their opinions and have their confirmations.

Ok, I will sort-out all the discussions in 3 phases, in the first one I will
describe the goals and challenges and a short introduction to OFDM
Then the theory, design and architecture is introduced.
Finally, the samples acqusated from the hardware will be discussed


Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing has been adopted in the Wi-Fi arena
 where the standards like 802.11a, 802.11n, 802.11ac and DVB. It has also been
 chosen for the cellular telecommunications standard LTE / LTE-A, and in addition
to this it has been adopted by other standards such as WiMAX and many more. 

in comparison to the conventional single carrier communications, An OFDM signal
consists of a number of closely spaced modulated carriers. 
When modulation of any form - voice, data, etc.

Although the sidebands from each carrier overlap, they can still be received
 without the interference that might be expected because they are orthogonal
 to each another. This is achieved by having the carrier spacing equal to the
 reciprocal of the symbol period. It is more mathematical theory that I will
 not go through. 
 
 Any non-linearity will cause interference between the carriers as a result
 of inter-modulation distortion. This will introduce unwanted signals that
 would cause interference and impair the orthogonality of the transmission.
 
 
 
Immunity to selective fading:   One of the main advantages of OFDM is that is 
more resistant to frequency selective fading than single carrier systems 
because it divides the overall channel into multiple narrowband signals that
 are affected individually as flat fading sub-channels.

Resilience to interference:   Interference appearing on a channel may be bandwidth
 limited and in this way will not affect all the sub-channels. This means that not
 all the data is lost.

Spectrum efficiency:   Using close-spaced overlapping sub-carriers, a significant OFDM
 advantage is that it makes efficient use of the available spectrum.

Resilient to ISI:   Another advantage of OFDM is that it is very resilient to inter-symbol
 and inter-frame interference. This results from the low data rate on each of the sub-channels.

Simpler channel equalisation:   One of the issues with CDMA systems was the complexity of the
 channel equalisation which had to be applied across the whole channel. An advantage of OFDM
 is that using multiple sub-channels, the channel equalization becomes much simpler.
 
High peak to average power ratio:   An OFDM signal has a noise like amplitude variation and has
 a relatively high large dynamic range, or peak to average power ratio. This impacts the RF
 amplifier efficiency as the amplifiers need to be linear and accommodate the large amplitude
 variations and these factors mean the amplifier cannot operate with a high efficiency level.
Sensitive to carrier offset and drift:   Another disadvantage of OFDM is that is sensitive to
 carrier frequency offset and drift. Single carrier systems are less sensitive.
 
 Now, this is the list of main goal for the thesis, 
 A fundamental OFDM system on FPGA based on the standard 802.11a which is a basic one is needed.
 It is used at present for other team members to develop their innovative architecture for
 full-duplex communications and also new coding mechanism. 
 The main part of the OFDM system is going to implement logic but communicating to the outside
 we enjoyed using a processor... in our work we have chosen from Zynq family of Xilinx company
 that has an ARM A9 processor. It has a lot of useful ports and peripherals like UART, I2C and 
 specially EMAC or ethernet communication.
 A bridge is essential between two sections (logic and processor sections). we used Block RAMs
 which communicate via AXI bus in the design. In many cases we used Direct Memory Access between
 elements. For instance, between logic and processor, and processor and ethernet port.
 The other important task is to choose a suitable radio board which can meet the requirements of 
accuracy and stabilities... the clock stability and ADC/ DAC precision
At the end of the day, a correct methodology for the testing each elements individually and together.


This is a very basic OFDM system block diagram, as you can see,  the IFFT/ FFT blocks is facilitated
the implementation of the modulation and it can be proven by mathematical theory
the tones are extracted by IFFT and the cyclic prefix is added and the serialized
before the channel blocks there are RF elements like power amplifier and modulators
and clock chain ICs. The the inverse operation is done in the reciver.

 